hello look laughs yes hi farmer Pepito
good you this can't wait to learn
guys are pumped yeah so we are going to
know today the lot of work on linear
[Music]
grass and when I say linear groves
what kind of wife's my talking about who
in the first four levels yeah to do
great by straight lines okay that's kind
of reports than any of is just for
straight lines and keeping one sort kind
of make clear and remind people of that
literally straight lines can be made in
Euclidean geometry budget joining two
points okay energy points create a
straight line and all those points have
got an equation related to them I think
that's something that we'll be looking
[Music]
creation of a line I feel you guys might
know what is it anyone why the YMCA
No thank you very much for listening we
have oh this is be aware if I were to
draw a quick axes like this a horizontal
is correct and I call it a Y and that's
kind of a key thing to racists do with
these these are Max's em it's for
gradient which is art so perhaps deep
eye shadow a line is and I kind of
remember it is the French word Monte
which is to climb so and let's do just
like and then the C this is our
y-intercept okay and that is where it
crosses okay and so these things are
what you need to kind of name a line so
we have a look at example on our graph
see so what is our y-intercept from this
line that is going through one really
access fantastic so our C is equal to 1
okay so our equation is going to be
something like y equals you haven't gone
yet
Thanks and then okay so that's the first
part
what so if we look now at this line
what's the C for this one so going to
across act minus 3 so it's easy
two minus three so our equation for this
line will be y equals something we
haven't got around yen's
X and then minus three and that's this
as simple as that so do you find your
y-intercept the list you saying work
courses or is simple okay
come back to this in a minute so now
we're going to look at the idea of the
gradient okay so if we look back at this
example here the gradient is how steep
our line is right so what that kind of
means is for every one you go across how
many do you go up so for this line if we
start at this point one where they only
want like the y-intercept is if we go
along or what x-axis one how how many
are we going to it's super light and so
our change in Y divided by our change in
X is how we work have agreed so I am to
this one is to total one so the equation
of on line is this is yeah right so if
we have a look at this one let's go a
little bit further so if I say here and
here so what is our change in Y 1 2 3
and then what's our change in X that's
also to the two so upgrade u is equal to
1 so that's effectively 1x take away 3
but do we need the one you know
invisible why is he okay
so this is how we work out the equation
of a line
what do you notice about the lines and
this that one sleep in a nun yeah
so I'm going to say that must have a
large gradient but multiple and then
compared because these ones are going in
the opposite the top right-hand corner
these ending towards the top left-hand
so they're kind of going can you see the
lines are effectively going yeah yeah
let's have a look at this one now okay
slight change the kiss the light for the
line is going in a different direction
but our intercepts what
three easy simple so plus 3 and that
upgrade is slightly different because
for this I've changed from one to two on
our x-axis is positive one for this one
that the direction is going the opposite
way so we're going from two to one
so we've taken away so this is minus one
so what's the gradient for this this is
minus 1 1 so minus 1 divided by 1 is
minus 1 and say that's just done you
know I'm pretty much the basics right
there gradients intercepts
[Music]
thank you for introducing us to the
world of the now we're going to
controversial what was the equation
kindly y equals MX plus C so M
represents the gradient monta represents
so we with this set of two points we can
see work out the gradient which is their
steepness of the line how would we do
that
so the same working out the convenient
using those two points the way you
showed us was to take the difference in
Y so difference in Y also a change
that's the change in the Y yeah over
that the change in X so change that
little triangle doesn't change what's
the change this is controversial and
then the change in the X to the gradient
is to how we go back to the equation we
do what we call plugging in plug in plug
in Y
[Music]
finest directs us okay wheeler so we've
got this but it's not quite quite full
yeah complete because we're missing well
then why interceptors you know how steep
it is not how steep is this - I am - it
doesn't - so we can use either these
points and substitute them like a
football team get them onto the pitch
get the final result so who can
substitute two five so why is what this
one five five equals two times X or 2
times 2 is 4
Oh classy for watch mr siva we owe to
take forward both sides c is equal to 1
yes equals 1 and then what are you for
the final plug it in plug it in 1 equals
2 eggs 1 and then it even works for 9 to
try it so 9 is 3 times 4 is 8 plus 1
[Music]
thank you very much Susan
you're amazing lesson on straight lines
linear equations gradients climbing
Monta I'm never gonna forget the French
word so what I'm gonna do is take your
brilliant knowledge you've given to us
and apply it to finding a route around
the treasure map so I have found a
treasure map in my attic this treasure
map it's actually set on a graph Oh sir
we have we start at zero zero and now on
the treasure map you can't just go
straight to the treasure it'd be too
easy we know where x marks the spot
right that's over here as seven zero so
we know where the treasure is but it's
locked in a sealed chest so before we
can get to the treasure we've got to
pick up the key and the key is up here
three four so here's the key monkey's
guarded by an evil witch so let me give
you the key if you solve the riddle
carved into the stone this is a hole
this is a good a good job and the stone
on the side of the mountain is it worn -
what we need to do is starting from the
origin we need to move first of all here
yeah then we need to move the second
line up to give the solution of the
riddle - the way to get the key
and then we've got to go down use the
key
now to do this we need to know the
equations of our lines we need to know
exactly the direction that we're going
to move it so first of all starting from
the origin we need to go to here okay to
solve the riddle so in what direction
what is the equation so we to work out y
equals x plus y equals MX plus C so y
equals MX plus C so you defined first of
all what saucy it's zero zero
good-day up and then so to get great
chip you want the change in Y divided by
the change in X so height is 2y and then
our change in X is 1 so M is equal to 2
over 1 so quick it is just 2 so starting
off from our current location right so
we get the riddle Bobby what's the
riddle what starts off for four legs
moves to two legs two legs ends up on
three legs three legs I'm clean I'm just
gonna start calculating where we're
going next
Susan you can work on that one good
there the end so we we have a little bit
of time because we gotta travel from the
mountain with the stone where the riddle
is carved to the which one to exchange
the answer for the key so we need to go
from one to two three four don't we want
to use
Bobby's method now don't we because we
have two points it's miles so what is
that equation between those two points
okay so we don't have ones that we find
that off that you defined the great
universe yeah so great work I was
changing the Y to the X yes
so changing the Y is 4 minus 2 which is
- and the change in the X is 3 minus 1
which is 2 so the gradient is 1 so and
then to find out what the C is we
substitute our values into white was an
X plus y a probably easier one try the
one - yeah so that Y is 2 yeah 2 equals
MX which is 1 1 times 1 is 1 plus C so 2
equals 1 for C between C is 1
yeah and y equals x plus 1 does that
work with our new point so for n equal
to 3 plus 1
yes perfect right y equals 2x and we
traveled along y equals x plus 1 and now
do we have the solution yeah it was a
person yeah okay right fantastic so we
can exchange the riddle we've got the
key from the witch fry which right
so this come back to the end of your
lesson Susan how we're going to do this
one what type of line is this one yo
it's negative ok so again it's still the
same idea there isn't it we're gonna do
the gradient so a change in Y we've gone
from 4 to 0 so taken away 4 divided -
former top pop okay and then we've gone
from 3 to 7 to add it on four yep - then
our gradient is minus one plug in our
values 7 0
yeah so 7 is that minus X plus what
gives us 0 7 perfect so we start off y
equals 2x first part we solve Bobby's
riddle it's a human we give the answer
to the winch we get the key we go on our
negative gradient y equals minus X plus
7 we open the treasure chest
[Music]
you